Evilginx 3.0 Evilginx is a man-in-the-middle attack framework used for phishing login credentials along with session cookies, which in turn allows to bypass 2-factor authentication protection. This tool is a successor to Evilginx, released in 2017, which used a custom version of nginx HTTP server to provide man-in-the-middle functionality to act as a proxy between a browser and phished website. Present version is fully written in GO as a standalone application, which implements its own HTTP and DNS server, making it extremely easy to set up and use. Disclaimer I am very much aware that Evilginx can be used for nefarious purposes. This work is merely a demonstration of what adept attackers can do. It is the defender's responsibility to take such attacks into consideration and find ways to protect their users against this type of phishing attacks. Evilginx should be used only in legitimate penetration testing assignments with written permission from to-be-phished parties. Evilginx Mastery Training Course If you want everything about reverse proxy phishing with Evilginx - check out my Evilginx Mastery course! Learn everything about the latest methods of phishing, using reverse proxying to bypass Multi-Factor Authentication. Learn to think like an attacker, during your red team engagements, and become the master of phishing with Evilginx. Grab it here: https://academy.breakdev.org/evilginx-mastery Write-ups If you want to learn more about reverse proxy phishing, I've published extensive blog posts about Evilginx here: Evilginx 2.2 - Jolly Winter Update Evilginx 2.3 - Phisherman's Dream Help In case you want to learn how to install and use Evilginx, please refer to online documentation available at: Support I DO NOT offer support for providing or creating phishlets. I will also NOT help you with creation of your own phishlets. Please look for ready-to-use phishlets, provided by other people. License evilginx2 is made by Kuba Gretzky (@mrgretzky) and it's released under BSD-3 license.