HTML Applications HTML Applications (HTAs) are full-fledged applications. These applications are trusted and display only the menus, icons, toolbars, and title information that the Web developer creates. In short, HTAs pack all the power of Windows Internet Explorer¡ªits object model, performance, rendering power, protocol support, and channel¨Cdownload technology¡ªwithout enforcing the strict security model and user interface of the browser. HTAs can be created using the HTML and Dynamic HTML (DHTML) that you already know. Overviews/Tutorials Introduction to HTML Applications (HTAs) The power to build HTAs brings Internet Explorer to the fore as a viable Windows development platform. HTAs are full-fledged applications. These applications are trusted and display only the menus, icons, toolbars, and title information that the web developer creates. In short, HTAs pack all the power of Internet Explorer¡ªits object model, performance, rendering power and protocol support¡ªwithout enforcing the strict security model and user interface of the browser. Elements/Objects Enables an extended object model for building HTML Applications (HTA). Attributes/Properties Indicates whether the content of the object is an HTML Application (HTA), which is exempt from the security model. Sets or gets the name of the HTML Application (HTA). Sets or gets the type of window border for the HTML Application (HTA). Sets or gets the style set for the content border in the HTML Application (HTA) window. Sets or gets a Boolean value that indicates whether the window is set to display a title bar or a caption, for the HTML Application (HTA). Gets the argument used to launch the HTML Application (HTA). Sets or gets a string value that indicates whether the context menu is displayed when the right mouse button is clicked. Sets or gets the name and location of the icon specified in the HTML Application (HTA). Sets or gets a string value that indicates whether the inside 3-D border is displayed. Sets or gets a Boolean value that indicates whether a Maximize button is displayed in the title bar of the HTML Application (HTA) window. Sets or gets a Boolean value that indicates whether a Minimize button is displayed in the title bar of the HTML Application (HTA) window. Sets or gets a string value that indicates whether linked documents are loaded in the main HTA window or in a new browser window. Sets or gets a string value that indicates whether the scroll bars are displayed. Sets or gets a string value that indicates whether the scroll bar is 3-D or flat. Sets or gets a string value that indicates whether the content can be selected with the mouse or keyboard. Sets or gets a value that indicates whether the HTML Application (HTA) is displayed in the Windows taskbar. Sets or gets a value that indicates whether only one instance of the specified HTML Application (HTA) can run at a time. Sets or gets a Boolean value that indicates whether a system menu is displayed in the HTML Application (HTA). Sets or gets the version number of the HTML Application (HTA). Sets or gets the initial size of the HTA window.