- - Octo Tempest crosses boundaries to facilitate extortion, encryption, and destructionMicrosoft has been tracking activity related to the financially motivated threat actor Octo Tempest, whose evolving campaigns represent a growing concern for many organizations across multiple industries. - Multiple North Korean threat actors exploiting the TeamCity CVE-2023-42793 vulnerabilitySince early October 2023, Microsoft has observed North Korean nation-state threat actors Diamond Sleet and Onyx Sleet exploiting the Jet Brains TeamCity CVE-2023-42793 remote-code execution vulnerability. Given supply chain attacks carried out by these threat actors in the past, Microsoft assesses that this activity poses a particularly high risk to organizations who are affected. - Automatic disruption of human-operated attacks through containment of compromised user accountsUser containment is a unique and innovative defense mechanism that stops human-operated attacks in their tracks. We¡¯ve added user containment to the automatic attack disruption capability in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. User containment is automatically triggered by high-fidelity signals and limits attackers¡¯ ability to move laterally within a network regardless of the compromised account¡¯s Active Directory state or privilege level. - Defending new vectors: Threat actors attempt SQL Server to cloud lateral movementMicrosoft security researchers recently identified an attack where attackers attempted to move laterally to a cloud environment through a SQL Server instance. The attackers initially exploited a SQL injection vulnerability in an application within the target¡¯s environment to gain access and elevated permissions to a Microsoft SQL Server instance deployed in an Azure Virtual Machine (VM). The attackers then used the acquired elevated permission to attempt to move laterally to additional cloud resources by abusing the server¡¯s cloud identity. - Peach Sandstorm password spray campaigns enable intelligence collection at high-value targetsSince February 2023, Microsoft has observed a high volume of password spray attacks attributed to Peach Sandstorm, an Iranian nation-state group. In a small number of cases, Peach Sandstorm successfully authenticated to an account and used a combination of publicly available and custom tools for persistence, lateral movement, and exfiltration. - Uncursing the ncurses: Memory corruption vulnerabilities found in libraryA set of memory corruption vulnerabilities in the ncurses library could have allowed attackers to chain the vulnerabilities to elevate privileges and run code in the targeted program's context or perform other malicious actions. - Malware distributor Storm-0324 facilitates ransomware accessThe threat actor that Microsoft tracks as Storm-0324 is a financially motivated group known to gain initial access using email-based initial infection vectors and then hand off access to compromised networks to other threat actors. These handoffs frequently lead to ransomware deployment. Beginning in July 2023, Storm-0324 was observed distributing payloads using an open-source tool [¡­] - Cloud storage security: What¡¯s new in the threat matrixWe¡¯re announcing the release of a second version of our threat matrix for storage services, a structured tool that assists in identifying and analyzing potential security threats on data stored in cloud storage services. - Flax Typhoon using legitimate software to quietly access Taiwanese organizationsChina-based actor Flax Typhoon is exploiting known vulnerabilities for public-facing servers, legitimate VPN software, and open-source malware to gain access to Taiwanese organizations, but not taking further action.