AWS Systems Manager Run Command Using Run Command, a capability of AWS Systems Manager, you can remotely and securely manage the configuration of your managed nodes. A managed node is any Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance or non-EC2 machine in your hybrid and multicloud environment that has been configured for Systems Manager. Run Command allows you to automate common administrative tasks and perform one-time configuration changes at scale. You can use Run Command from the AWS Management Console, the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell, or the AWS SDKs. Run Command is offered at no additional cost. To get started with Run Command, open the Systems Manager console Administrators use Run Command to install or bootstrap applications, build a deployment pipeline, capture log files when an instance is removed from an Auto Scaling group, join instances to a Windows domain, and more. Getting Started The following table includes information to help you get started with Run Command. |Topic |Details | Verify that you have completed the setup requirements for your Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances and non-EC2 machines in a hybrid and multicloud environment. | Setting up Systems Manager for hybrid and multicloud environments | (Optional) Register on-premises servers and VMs with AWS so you can manage them using Run Command. | (Optional) Configure edge devices so you can manage them using Run Command. | AWS Systems Manager Run Command | Learn how to run a command that targets one or more managed nodes by using the AWS Management Console. | Learn how to run commands using either Tools for Windows PowerShell or the AWS CLI. EventBridge support This Systems Manager capability is supported as both an event type and a target type in Amazon EventBridge rules. For information, see Monitoring Systems Manager events with Amazon EventBridge and Reference: Amazon EventBridge event patterns and types for Systems Manager. - More info - - Remotely Run Command on an EC2 Instance (10 minute tutorial) - Systems Manager service quotas in the Amazon Web Services General Reference - -