In our quest to help security operations and incident response teams work more effectively, we¡¯ve created a list of the top 10 open source threat intelligence feeds. Each threat feed listed here integrates seamlessly with our award-winning Smart SOAR platform, as do dozens of the top enterprise and subscription-based threat intelligence platforms. Private companies are able to report cyber threat indicators with the DHS, which are then distributed via the Automated Indicator Sharing website. This database helps reduce the effectiveness of simple attacks by exposing malicious IP addresses, email senders, and more. The FBI¡¯s InfraGard Portal provides information relevant to 16 sectors of critical infrastructure. Private and public sector organizations can share information and security events, and the FBI also provides information on cyber attacks and threats that they are tracking. Swiss-based abuse.ch, a Bern University project, collaborates with Spamhaus, serving IT experts and law enforcement. It tracks botnets, operates MalwareBazaar, URLhaus, and YARAify, focusing on malware like Emotet, Dridex, and malicious SSL certificates, sharing indicators of compromise. The Internet Storm Center, formerly known as the Consensus Incidents Database, came to prominence in 2001, when it was responsible for the detection of the ¡°Lion¡± worm. It uses a distributed sensor network that takes in over 20 million intrusion detection log entries per day to generate alerts regarding security threats. The site also provides analysis, tools, and forums for security professionals. VirusTotal uses dozens of antivirus scanners, blacklisting services, and other tools to analyze and extract data from files and URLs submitted by users. The service can be used to quickly check incidents like suspected phishing emails, and every submission is retained in its database to build a global picture of cyber threats. The Talos threat intelligence team protects Cisco customers, but there is a free version of their service available. Talos¡¯ unmatched tools and experience provide information about known threats, new vulnerabilities, and emerging dangers. Talos also provides research and analysis tools. VirusShare is an online repository of malware created and maintained by J-Michael Roberts, a digital forensics examiner. The site gives researchers, incident responders, and forensic investigators access millions of malware samples. The Safe Browsing service identifies dangerous websites and shares the information to raise awareness of security risks. Safe Browsing finds thousands of unsafe sites every day, many of which are legitimate sites that have been compromised by hackers. While some ISAC feeds are quite expensive, others are free. The National Council of ISACs provides a comprehensive list. Spamhaus is a European non-profit that tracks cyber threats and provides real-time threat intelligence. Spamhaus has developed comprehensive block-lists for known spammers and malware distributors, which they provide to ISPs, email service providers, and individual organizations. D3¡¯s Smart SOAR platform integrates with hundreds of tools, including threat intelligence platforms and open source tools, in order to automatically enrich alerts and incidents with the contextual data that security analysts need to quickly identify genuine threats and automate the appropriate response. Schedule a demo todayto learn from one of our SOAR experts how D3 can seamlessly bring threat intelligence into your security operations workflows.