Auto-fill Logins on Android Bitwarden makes your passwords available for auto-fill so that you can seamlessly log in to websites and apps while also maintaining strong and secure passwords. Auto-fill cuts the copying and pasting out of your login routine by detecting vault items that match the service you are logging in to. tip Most auto-fill scenarios rely on the attribution of URIs to login items. If you are unfamiliar with using URIs, brush up using our Using URIs article. Please note that custom fields are not currently supported in mobile auto-fill. If you are logged in to more than one account, your mobile app will default to trying to auto-fill credentials from the currently active account. You can switch from one account to another during auto-fill by tapping the avatar bubble: Depending on the version of Android your device is running, there are a few different ways to enable auto-fill from Bitwarden: Option Requires version... Requires you to also enable... Autofill Service Android 8+ - Inline Autofill Android 11+ Autofill Service, IME (input method editor) that supports Inline Draw-over Android 6+ Accessibility Accessibility All Android versions - The Autofill Service (requires Android 8+) will overlay a popup when the device is focused on an input that has a matching login item. When your vault is unlocked, you'll be provided the options to immediately auto-fill or to open your vault: You'll be presented with two options. The first (above, Twitter) will auto-fill the first login (above, my_username) with a matching URI. The second (above, Auto-fill with Bitwarden) will allow you to choose from a list of logins with matching URIs. To enable Autofill Service: Open your Bitwarden Android app and tap the Settings tab. Tap the Auto-fill option. Tap the Auto-fill Services option. Toggle the Auto-fill Service option. You'll be automatically redirected to an Android Settings screen. From the Auto-fill Service list, tap Bitwarden. You'll be prompted to confirm you trust Bitwarden. Tapping OK will let Bitwarden read content on the screen to know when to offer auto-fill. Learn more from our blog post. Autofill Service not working? See Troubleshooting the Auto-fill Service. note Before you can enable Inline Autofill, enable Autofill Service. Inline Autofill (requires Android 11+, a compatible IME (input method editor), and Autofill Service to be enabled) moves the auto-fill service overlay into the keyboard: To enable inline auto-fill: Open your Bitwarden Android app and tap the Settings tab. Tap the Auto-fill option. Tap the Auto-fill Services option. Toggle the Use Inline Autofill option. If your auto-fill overlay doesn't move into your keyboard, check whether the IME you are using supports Inline. The accessibility method will overlap a popup offering to open your vault to browse matching login items when the device is focused on an input: To enable the accessibility method: Open your Bitwarden Android app and tap the Settings tab. Tap the Auto-fill option. Tap the Auto-fill Services option. Toggle the Use Accessibility option. You will be automatically redirected to an Android settings screen. In the services or downloaded apps list, tap Bitwarden and toggle Use Bitwarden from Off ¡ú On. You will be prompted to accept allow Bitwarden permissions on your device. Tapping Allow will let Bitwarden read content on the screen to know when to offer auto-fill. warning If you're using Android 6+, you must also enable Draw-Over. Accessibility not working? See Troubleshooting the Accessibility Service. note Before you can enable draw-over, enable Accessibility. Draw-over (required to use Accesibility on Android 6+) will overlap a popup offering to open your vault to browse matching login items when the device is focused on an input: To enable the draw-over method: Open your Bitwarden Android app and tap the Settings tab. Tap the Auto-fill option. Tap the Auto-fill Services option. Toggle the Use draw-over option. You'll be automatically redirected to an Android Settings screen. Tap Bitwarden from the list and toggle the Permit drawing over other apps option. tip Still having problems? Refer to our break-out guide on troubleshooting Android Autofill. If you are still not able to get Android Autofill working, contact us.